Single source project (#56)
openlyrics/openlyrics: docs/source/dataformat.rst

using the `7-Zip <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/7zip>`_ format, as this format is
known to handle non-ASCII file names well.

> Processing Instruction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Processing Instructions
```
(Don't forget to increase the number of dashes too)

----------------------

OpenLyrics, like all XML files, can contain `processing instructions <https://www.w3.org/TR/REC-xml/#sec-pi>`_.

> With ``xml-stylesheet`` processing instruction it is possible to `associate <https://www.w3.org/TR/xml-stylesheet/>`_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the ``xml-stylesheet`` attribute it is possible to `associate <https://www.w3.org/TR/xml-stylesheet/>`_
```

> CSS or XSLT style sheets with OpenLyrics document. Example::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CSS or XSLT style sheets with an OpenLyrics document. For example::
```

The second section of an OpenLyrics song is defined by the ``<lyrics>`` tag. This
tag contains words of a song and other data related to it.

> The ``<lyrics>`` tag contains one or more ``<verse>`` and ``<instrumental>`` tags.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``<lyrics>`` tag contains one or more ``<verse>`` or ``<instrumental>`` tags.
```

Each ``<verse>`` tag defines a verse or stanza of a song, and contains a single
mandatory attribute, ``name``. Each ``<instrumental>`` tag defines an instrumental

> part (without lyrics) of a song, and contains a single mandatory attribute, name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
part (without lyrics) of a song, and contains a single mandatory attribute, ``name``.
```

This tells the application that it can split the verse after the
line "That saved a wretch like me!"

Verse/Instrumental Name
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> As previously mentioned, every ``<verse>`` and ``instrumental`` tag has a mandatory ``name`` attribute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As previously mentioned, every ``<verse>`` or ``<instrumental>`` tag has a mandatory ``name`` attribute.
```

``b``                   bridge
``b1, b2, ...``         first bridge, second bridge, ...
``ba, b1a, b1b, ...``   bridge part A, first bridge part A, first bridge part B, ...
``e``                   ending
``e1, e2, ...``         first ending, second ending, ...
``ea, e1a, e1b, ...``   ending part A, first ending part A, first ending part B, ...
``i``                   instrumental intro
``i1, i2, ...``         first intro, second intro, ...
``ia, i1a, i1b, ...``   intro part A, first intro part A, first intro part B, ...
``m``                   instrumental middle
``m1, m2, ...``         first middle, second middle, ...
``ma, m1a, m1b, ...``   middle part A, first middle part A, first middle part B, ...
``o``                   instrumental outro
``o1, o2, ...``         first outro, second outro, ...
``oa, o1a, o1b, ...``   outro part A, first outro part A, first outro part B, ...
``s``                   instrumental solo
``s1, s2, ...``         first solo, second solo, ...
``sa, s1a, s1b, ...``   solo part A, first solo part A, first solo part B, ...
======================= ==========================================================

> According to the table above, a song containing an istrumental intro (*i*) two verses (*v1, v2*), a chorus

Reviewer: ```suggestion
According to the table above, a song containing an instrumental intro (*i*) two verses (*v1, v2*), a chorus
```

(*c*), a bridge (*b*) and an ending (*e*) would look like this::

    <lyrics>

>       <verse name="i">

Author: You are right. Thanks. Corrected.

with English notation:

========== === ===== ===== === ===== ==== === === ===== ===== ==== ===== ==== === ===== ==== ===
english    C   C#    Db    D   D#    Eb   E   F   F#    Gb    G    G#    Ab   A   A#    Bb   B
========== === ===== ===== === ===== ==== === === ===== ===== ==== ===== ==== === ===== ==== ===
german     C   Cis   Des   D   Dis   Es   E   F   Fis   Ges   G    Gis   As   A   Ais   B    H
dutch      C   Cis   Des   D   Dis   Es   E   F   Fis   Ges   G    Gis   As   A   Ais   Bes  B
hungarian  C   Cisz  Desz  D   Disz  Esz  E   F   Fisz  Gesz  G    Gisz  Asz  A   Aisz  B    H
neolatin   Do  Do#   Reb   Re  Re#   Mib  Mi  Fa  Fa#   Solb  Sol  Sol#  Lab  La  La#   Sib  Si
========== === ===== ===== === ===== ==== === === ===== ===== ==== ===== ==== === ===== ==== ===

The preferred notation for displaying can be marked with ``chordNotation`` attribute on root element.

The bass
""""""""

The optional ``bass`` attribute describes the foreign bass of the chord if any. The values should marked
with English notation.

The chord structure
"""""""""""""""""""

The ``structure`` attribute describes the kind of the chord. This element is optional,

> if not present, de default value is the ``major``. It can be marked

Reviewer: ```suggestion
if not present, the default value is the ``major``. It can be marked
```

> 

Reviewer: Remove this line

Author: Raoul, thanks for corrections. I added them all. I am very grateful because English is not one of my strength.

But this is unclear for me. What is you suggestion?

a) 
```
The chord structure
"""""""""""""""""""
The ``structure`` attribute describes the kind of the chord. This element is optional,
```
b)
```
if not present, de default value is the ``major``. It can be marked
- with a sorthand code, or
```

Reviewer 2: @gyuris My guess is that @rsnyman meant remove the empty line.

Author: OK. Done.

**dim7**     diminished 7th                      °7
**halfdim7** half-diminished 7th                 ø
**minmaj7**  minor major 7th                     mΔ
**augmaj7**  augmented major 7th                 +Δ
**aug7**     dominant 7th sharp 5; augmented 7th 7
**maj6**     major 6th                           6
**maj6b**    (major minor 6th)                   6♭
**min6**     minor 6th                           m6
**min6b**    (minor minor 6th)                   m6♭
**dom9**     (dominant) 9th                      9
**dom9b**    dominant minor 9th                  7,9♭
**maj9**     major 9th                           Δ9
**min9**     minor (dominant)Í 9th               m9
**minmaj9**  minor major 9th                     mΔ9
**aug9**     augmented (dominant) 9th            9
**halfdim9** half-diminished 9th                 ø9
**sus4**     suspended 4th                       4
**sus2**     suspended 2nd                       2
**add9**     original name + added 9th           add9
============ =================================== ========

Other chords can be noted with **chord formulas**. OpenLyrics has 69 built-in chords defined by a formula.

> But with chord formula every author can write additional custom chords. Chord formulas are described

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using chord formulas, an author can write additional custom chords. Chord formulas are described
```

in :ref:`chord formulas <chordlist>`.

To display root+structure+bass
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

The processors should display chords:

- First display the ``root`` according to ``chordNotation``.
- Immediately followed by the notation for the marked chord.
- If there is a bass: immediately followed by a slash (/) and the ``root`` according to ``chordNotation``.

Examples:

=============================================== =========
XML                                             Displayed
=============================================== =========
``<chord root="C" structure="dom7"/>``          C7
``<chord root="D" bass="F#"/>``                 D/F♯
``<chord root="C" structure="min" bass="Eb"/>`` Cm/E♭
``<chord root="E" structure="3-5-m7-13"/>``     E7,6
=============================================== =========

Mixing lyrics and chords
""""""""""""""""""""""""

The ``<chord>`` tags are mixed in with the lyrics of a song::

> 

Reviewer 2: Previously, no text was allowed inside tag chord. What is the purpose of having the ability to have text inside chord tag? To alow following examples?

Author: This is a long story. Please see explanation is #54.

Reviewer 2: Understood.

      </verse>
    </lyrics>

Line repeat
^^^^^^^^^^^

In some songs not only the verses but also the lines may be repeated. Repeated verse can be managed
with the ``<verseOrder>`` tag::

    <verseOrder>v1 v1 c v2 v2 c</verseOrder>

Repeating lines can be described with an optional attribute for lines::

    <lines repeat="2">O my Jesus.</lines>

> The value of this attribute schould be 2 or a larger integer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The value of this attribute should be an integer with a value of 2 or more.
```

Lyrics projectors and processors can display the above example like this::

    𝄆 O my Jesus. 𝄇×2

> Or simple::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Or simply::
```

    O my Jesus.
    O my Jesus.

Instrumental parts
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> In some songs there are parts without lyrics, instrumental sections or vamps.

Reviewer: I'm not sure what a vamp is?

Author: Vamp: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ostinato#Vamp It is a common music related word in Hungary, but if it isn't widely known, we can delete it.

Reviewer 2: I would remove it. I would just add 'etc.' instead. In my language it is not known. Is it equivalent to EN word accompaniment?

Author: OK, Thanks. "Vamp" is removed from source and replaced with "etc.". 
(Yes, vamp is a repeating musical section.)

OpenLyrics supports describing these parts, very similar to ``<verse>`` tags::

    <lyrics>
      <instrument name="i">
        <lines>
          <beat><chord root="B" structure="m3-5" /><chord root="A" bass="C#" /></beat>
          <beat><chord root="D" /></beat>
          <beat><chord root="A" /></beat>
          <beat><chord root="G" /></beat>
        </lines>
      </instrument>
    </lyrics>

<instrumental> tags are siblings to <verse> tags. They can be in any order

> (described in ``<verseOrder>``). Name of an instrumental part can be intro (``name="i"``),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(described in ``<verseOrder>``). The name of an instrumental part can be intro (``name="i"``),
```

middle (``name="m"``), outro (``name="o"``) or solo (``name="s"``), and can named similar to other
verse names (``i, i1, i2, i1a, i1b``). Instrumental part can't contain lyrics, only ``<chord>`` and
``<beat>`` tags. A ``<beat>`` represents a beat in the music. It is not

> mandatory to separate beats, instrumental parts can contains only chords.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
mandatory to separate beats, instrumental parts can contain only chords.
```

> mandatory to separate beats, instrumental parts can contain only chords.

Reviewer 2: Could you explain more how the syntax with 'beat' tag should look like?

Author: Will it be good?

A ``<beat>`` represents a beat in the music. A ``<beat>`` tag can contains only ``<chord>`` tags. 
But it is not mandatory to separate beats, instrumental parts can contain chords only::

```xml
    <instrument name="i">
      <lines>
        <chord root="D" /><chord root="A" /><chord root="G" />
      </lines>
    </instrument>
```

Reviewer 2: Yes, that is ok.

Author: Thanks. Done.

> If a lyrics projector supports chords it can be display instrumental

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a lyrics projector supports chords it can display instrumental
```

parts as a verse without lyrics. If a lyrics projector does not support

> chords, can simple omit instrumental parts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
chords, can simply omit instrumental parts.
```

> The example above should be displayed printed as::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example above should be displayed like so::
```
